We have defined our Many to Many relationship with blog posts and talks.
We've also implement that in many places in our application but what we are missing right now is our
database seeder for the blue for the tax and associating them with the blog post.
So basically what we will do in this lecture is we will create to see their classes to seed dogs and
then to see the relationship between blog posts and tags and also we will use this occasion to play
around a little bit with the lot of our collections.
So let's start with making our new seeder for the tag model.
So we will use the artisan command peach bee artisan make cedar and as you can see we've used the same
conventions we used before for naming the cedars.
So let's call it tax table.
Cedar
so it is created here.
We have our round command that we will have to now implement.
So let's go ahead and do that.
This would be simple.
Now we won't use the model factories this case as you do not always have to use them.
You should only use them when they make sense.
So the tag model is very simple.
It only contains a name.
The rest of those parameters we don't really care about.
So let's define some names for our tax load.
Be science sport politics.
We also might have enter tainment and maybe economy so that's basically all the data we'll need for
the cedar.
No let's make use of a lot of our collections and see what we can use them for.
So first we'll use the collect helper function to create a collection from this array.
Now the tax is a collection object and we can iterate over all of those tag names using each which accepts
a callback.
And to this callback will pass every element of this collection which basically would be a string so
we can call it called the argument our tag name.
Now we can create our new instance of the tag.
Make sure you are the import here.
The only fake FEMA dog needs is a name.
So let's just assign tag name that we get past and finally we'll do tag save so that's it.
That's everything that we need.
And.
Well for now we will always create those uh those five tax now this won't get registered automatically
inside the database cedar so we either have to call this class specifically inside the seeder or we
can add it here.
So talk table cedar mind that I am using this now in this class the database seeder you do not really
have to import your seeder just added at the end of this call.
And now let's see what we have.
BHP artisan D.B. seed so yes we want to refresh the database.
Now we want the default blog post the full amount of blog post default amount of comments.
And also you can see that it is now sitting ducks.
So after we'll refresh the page what you will see is that.
Well basically no blog posts have tax now associated but if you will see the tax table you can see that
they are actually loaded.
So let's clear the terminal and what we will do now is we'll create another seeder that will see the
relation table for this many to many relationship so BHP artisan make cedar and we can cold that blog
post talk table cedar because that's what's the name of our pivot table actually is so it is create
that we can open that we have our round command and now let's see how we can implement this method so
first we will have to get the count of tax so at this point we want to make sure that we actually have
some tax inside the database.
So let's do tag.
All count.
So to the top count variable we are assigning all the while the count of the tax that are in inside
the database in case you will change that later.
Also mind the use statement are that here.
Now we have the count of the tax so we can check if there are any.
Because if there are zero tax or let's add an if statement we can tell the user running this command
using this command info that no tax found skipping assigning tax to blog posts and we will return.
So at this point we are just quitting this command because there is nothing to do here
now in this method.
We will also ask the user how many tax he wants to assign to our blog post by asking how many minimum
tax should be assigned and how many maximum tax.
So how many minimum.
So we'll read the user answers into the variable of course we need to convert that to integer.
And now we are doing this command ask.
We did that before.
So we have to ask the question and then optionally provide our default value.
So the question minimum tax on blog post
and the default value.
Well let maybe let it be zero.
And how many marks.
So that's another question.
And we ask it using the same method.
This command ask and the maximum tax on blog post.
So let's keep the let's keep those questions simple.
And we also have to provide our default value which should be the maximum tax available.
But also let's make sure that whatever user provides it's not bigger than the actual number of tags
that we have
so we'll use.
Well we'll use the minimum value and it accepts two arguments.
So it will take that the lower value it will take the lower value from two arguments what user provides
and the attack count.
So if user provided free it will choose free of course.
Because at this point we have five ducks.
But if the user would say let's say eight.
Then we will use duck count which currently should be five.
Okay now we should iterate over all the blog posts and assign some tax to them.
So how can we do that.
We have our blog post model press enter at this point so you have the import of it we will use all because
we want to iterate over all the blog posts.
And now we can use collections each matter and define a closure.
Now we know that this would be of the type of blog post and inside disclosure will assign some tax to
a blog post.
Now we'll need to use some variables from the outside scope which is how many I mean how many marks
because they are not available inside closures.
So as I've said couple of times before you always have to use the use statement if you want to access
some variables that aren't in the scope of the closure.
So how many I mean how many marks.
So now they would be available.
Now let's calculate how many blog posts so how much sorry how many tags we would like to assign to a
blog post.
So we will generate a random integer integer using random int which accepts minimum and maximum so we'll
give it.
How many mean how many marks.
And now let's read some tax.
So how would you read some random records from our database using the tag model.
So at this point we should also have tag imported in our use statement.
So there is a method in random order on every model on every local model that you create.
And this will basically return talks in a randomized order.
So by default they will be ordered by I.D..
But here we will randomize them so they will be in random fetched in random order.
Now we do not want old attacks.
We only want the amount of tax that we have for randomly selected for that block post.
So we'll use take.
Now finally we would like to execute this query and get those tags.
But since we would only Well we only need I.D. of those tags because we'll use the sink method of the
relation as we.
Well you've seen that couple of lectures before.
Now we can use the plug method on the collection to only get the I.D..
Now the tax would be a collection of I.D. finally what we can do is we since we are iterating over every
blog post in our database and every blog post has this relation defined docs.
Now we can call sync and just parse the tag ideas.
Now we don't have to worry about attaching and detaching because we are sitting the database.
So at this point it is empty now.
When adding some relations you might remember you do not really have to call and save metal.
Sink is ultimately doing that for us.
So now let's save the changes.
Clear the terminal and large it a little bit by clicking here and now let's run BGP artisan DB seed
say yes so the database runs so we trance older migrations let's use default the users default amount
of block post default amount of comments.
And of course I forgot to add this seeder to the database CDO.
That's why it wasn't run so let's do that now.
So blog post stock table cedar class.
Okay.
Now this would work.
So let's clear the screen and run peach bee artisan DBC.
Again repeat the steps so we will just use default values.
Now at this point we are asked how many minimum blog posts we.
How many.
A minimum of tags we want on each blog post let's use default 0 maximum 5.
And it is generated so let's now check out the blog post stock table you can see quite a lot of records
inside hundred twelve specifically.
And now if you will refresh the list of the blog posts you will see that some blog posts have talks.
Others don't.
And some have quite a lot of them.
So now going to the sport category actually makes sense because you can see we get to the post dot controller
and you can see all the blog posts that have the support tag defined.
Let's do the same with entertainment and now all the blog posts with the entertainment tag are visible
here.
So in this lecture we've seen how we can simply generate some data without even using the model factory
for simple cases.
We've also played around a little bit with the larger collections we've seen how to iterate with each
how to simply save some data.
We've also seen.
Well basically we repeated the steps we did previously asking some questions checking if data exists.
And you've also learned how you can pick some records from the database table in random order for this
use cases like we want some random tax to be selected from the database and all the other stuff we basically
already did.